1. Data lake.
A central collection point for all data not directly related to a transaction. A data lake is flexible as data is stored in its native format. The logic of storing data the data is that actions that a customer makes prior to a transaction can be potentially useful. As the data is in its native format, it can potentially be anything, including large amounts of unstructured data. The index of the table is such a thing like a timestamp. When using time, start from highest to lowest, from year to minute and see at each level if it is enough. Higher than that, data can be segregated by geographical region.
2. Database.
Contains data on separate parts of the business stored in separate tables. Databases use OnLine Transactional Processing (OLTP) to delete, insert, replace, and update large numbers of short online transactions quickly. Databases support thousands of concurrent users because they are updated in real-time to reflect the business’s transactions. As the data is fluid and is constantly being feed and read, it is not suitable for data analytics.
3. Data warehouse.
Contains batches of raw data from databases or a data lake transformed and combined into a single table which makes it easier to run analytics on. Data warehouses use OnLine Analytical Processing (OLAP) to analyze massive volumes of data rapidly. Between databases or data lakes and the data warehouse, a process is called ETL (Extract Transform Load) occurs whereby the data extracted is transformed before being and loaded into the data warehouse. The transformations often involve converting inconsistent raw data formats into a common schema and other processes with the end goal of making it 'usable'. As such, data here is more organized and structured and can be directly retrieved for use by end users such as data analysts. Data warehouses only support a limited number of concurrent users, as using it involves writing and executing complex queries. As such, it is separated from front-end applications. AWS redshift, snowflake and google bigquery are examples of cloud data warehouses.
